PROBLEM STATEMENTS:
Shortage of parking space, traffic congestion due to visitors in search for a parking place are only a few examples of everyday parking problems.
DESCRIPTION :
The implementation of this work will help to identify whether the car parking slot is empty or not without roaming the parking place; it will help by displaying which slot is empty and number of empty slots. The main components are IR sensor, VR sensor, Arduino, LCD display, Servo motor. The IR sensor is placed in parking place to sense whether the place is filled or not. If not, it will display which slot is empty through LCD display. Now place the sensors and servo motor at accurate positions. There are four parking slots in this project, IR sensor-3, 4, 5, and 6 are placed at slot-1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively. IR sensor-1 and 2 are placed at the entry and exit gate respectively and a servo motor is used to operate the common single entry and exit gate. The LCD display is placed near the entry gate. The system used IR sensor-3, 4, 5, and 6 to detect whether the parking slot is empty or not and IR sensor-1, and 2 for detecting vehicles arriving or not at the gate.In the beginning, when all parking slots are empty, then the LCD display shows all slots are empty. When a vehicle arrives at the gate of the parking area then the IR sensor-1 detects the vehicle and the system allows entry of that vehicle by opening the servo barrier. After entering into the parking area, when that vehicle occupies a slot then the LED display shows that the slot is full. In this way, this system automatically allows 4 vehicles. In case the parking is full, the system blocks the entrance gate by closing the servo barrier. And the LED display shows that slot-1, 2, 3, and 4 are full. When a vehicle leaves a slot and arrives at the gate of the parking area then the IR sensor-2 detects that vehicle and the system opens the servo barrier. Then the LED display shows that the slot is empty. Again, the system will allow entering a new vehicle.
